Release k6 v0.26.0 (#1231)
loadimpact/k6: release notes/v0.26.0.md

The first line of the output is the names of columns and looks like:
```
metric_name,timestamp,metric_value,check,error,error_code,group,method,name,proto,status,subproto,tls_version,url,extra_tags
http_reqs,1573131887,1.000000,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
http_req_duration,1573131887,116.774321,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
http_req_blocked,1573131887,148.691247,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
http_req_connecting,1573131887,112.593448,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
```

All thanks to @Sirozha1337!

### JSON output optimizations (#1114)

The JSON output no longer blocks the goroutine sending samples to all outputs but instead (like all other outputs) buffers the samples and writes them on regular intervals (100ms and is currently not configurable). It also uses slightly faster way of doing it that would decrease the memory usage by a small amount.

Another improvement is the ability to compress the generated JSON file by simply adding `.gz` to the end of the file name. Compressed files are typically 30x smaller.

### InfluxDB refactoring (#1113)

> The InfluxDB output has been updated to use less memory and try to send smaller and consistent chunks of data to InfluxDB in order to not drop packages and use less memory. This is primarily done by sending data in parallel as this seems to be better from a performance perspective and more importantly queuing data in separate packages so we don't send the data for a very long period all at once. Also, the library used was updated which also decreased the memory usage.

Author: Can you edit this to be "big time" instead of "bit time" ... I can't :(

> The InfluxDB output has been updated to use less memory and try to send smaller and consistent chunks of data to InfluxDB in order to not drop packages and use less memory. This is primarily done by sending data in parallel as this seems to be better from a performance perspective and more importantly queuing data in separate packages so we don't send the data for a very long period all at once. Also, the library used was updated which also decreased the memory usage.

Reviewer: done

* JS: Fail a `check` if an uncaught error is thrown inside of it (#1137)
* HTTP: Replace user credentials with `*` when emitting http metrics (#1132)
* WS: Many fixes:
  - return error instead of panicking if error happens during the making of the websocket connection (#1127)
  - calling the `error` handler on an error when closing the websocket, instead of calling with a null (#1118)
  - correctly handle server initiated close (#1186)
* JSON: Better error messages when parsing JSON fails. Now telling you at which line and row the
  error is instead of just the offset. Thanks, @openmohan (#905)
* HTTP: Use Request's `GetBody` in order to be able to get the body multiple times for a single
  request as needed in 308 redirects of posts and if the server sends GOAWAY with no error (#1093)
* JS: Don't export internal go struct fields of script options (#1151)
* JS: Ignore `minIterationDuration` for `setup` and `teardown` (#1175)
* UX: Better timeout messages for `setup` and `teardown` timeouts including a hint on how to fix it (#1173)
* HTTP: Return error on any request that returns 101 status code as k6 currently doesn't support any protocol upgrade behaviour (#1172)

> * HTTP: Correctly capture TCP reset by peer and broken pipe errors and give them the appropriate error_code (#1164)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HTTP: Correctly capture TCP reset by peer and broken pipe errors and give them the appropriate `error_code` metric tag values (#1164)
```

> * UX: Don't interpret not `K6_` prefixed env variables as k6 configuration, most notable `DURATION` and `ITERATIONS` (#1215)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* UX: Don't interpret non-`K6_` prefixed environment variables as k6 configuration, most notably `DURATION` and `ITERATIONS` (#1215)
```

> * JS/html: When using `Selection.map` was not wrapping the nodes it was outputting which lead to wrongly using the internal `Goquery.Selection` instead of k6's `Selection`. Thanks to @MMartyn for reporting this! (#1198)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JS/html: `Selection.map` was not wrapping the nodes it was outputting, which lead to wrongly using the internal `Goquery.Selection` instead of k6's `Selection`. Thanks to @MMartyn for reporting this! (#1198)
```

> * HTTP: Correctly set the cookie for the current URL not the one the current request is redirecting to. Thanks @dimatock! (#1201)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HTTP: When there are redirects, k6 will not correctly set the cookie for the current URL, not for the one the current response is redirecting to. Thanks @dimatock! (#1201)
```

Author: maybe `URL, not for the one` to be `URL, instead of for the the one ` ?

Reviewer: fixed

* Cloud: Add token to make calls to the cloud API idempotent (#1208)

> * Cloud: Improve aggregation of http metrics for different URLs but having the same `name` tag (#1220)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Cloud: Improve aggregation of HTTP metrics for requests to different URLs, but with the same explicitly set `name` tag (#1220)
```

* Cloud: Fix a bug where you weren't able to run a script, outputting to cloud, if it was using the shortcut urls for github/cdnjs (#1237)

> * UX: Include the path to the directory when a directory is used with `open()` (#1238)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* UX: When a folder is passed with `open()`, the resulting error message will now include the path to the specified folder (#1238)
```

## Internals

* CI: Stop using external service for testing websockets (#1138) and remove the last use of the external `httpbin.org`(#1213)
* CI: Move to go 1.13 and back and to 1.13 again after a bug was fixed in the stdlib (#1145, #1157, #1177)
* CI: Fix a test on MacOS (#1142)
* CI: Fixing flaky tests (#1149, #1223)
* Drop an external dependency for getting user's `configdir` (#1162)
* Use bitmask for checking whether system tags are enabled, adding some small speedup where this is required (#1148)
* Update `envconfig` as it was very old and the newer versions had fixes and features we want (#1214)
* Metrics: Emit iterations as part of `netext.NetTrail`, instead of as a standalone one. Also cutting down on amount of bytes we sent to the cloud output (#1203)

> * UX: K6 Version will now include the git commit it was build from (in most cases ...) (#1235)

Reviewer: This feels like it should be in some other section, given that it's externally visible to users... Though it might be a bit too small for the new features/enhancements... :confused:

Author: I decided that ... most users won't be able to see a difference either way and I don't think it fits in any of the other ones as well

Reviewer: We can also add a `UX` section, like we had before: https://github.com/loadimpact/k6/blob/prepare-v0.26.0/release%20notes/v0.23.0.md#ux
We can move this, the `open()` fix for folders, the setup/teardown timeouts there

Author: that seems like the best idea , will do it while fixing all the dots ...

## Breaking changes

> * Not really a breaking change, but `k6 convert` is getting deprecated in favor of [har-to-k6](https://github.com/loadimpact/har-to-k6). As such not new enchantment or bug fixes are expected for the internal converter. (#1228)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Not really a breaking change, but `k6 convert` is getting deprecated in favor of the newer [har-to-k6](https://github.com/loadimpact/har-to-k6) external converter. As such, no new enchantment or bug fixes are expected for the internal converter, and it will probably be completely removed in a few versions. (#1228)
```

In order to get this feature shipped in a timely manner, it currently has a known bug. The output of `console` calls in the init context will always be written to the `stdout`, even if the `--console-output` option is specified. This bug is tracked in https://github.com/loadimpact/k6/issues/1131

### HTTP: request body decompression with multiple layered algorithms (#1125)

In v0.25.0 compressing bodies was added and it had support for multiple layered algorithms. Now this is also true for decompressing bodies when k6 gets them as responses.

### Summary: add an optional count column (#1143)

The `--summary-trend-stats` now also recognizes `count` as a valid column and will output the count of samples in all Trend metrics. This could be especially useful for custom `Trend` metrics, since with them you no longer need to specify a separate accompanying `Counter` metric.

### Docker compose refactor (#1183)

The example docker-compose that enabled easy running of InfluxDB+Grafana+k6 was refactored and all the images were updated to use the latest stable versions.

Thanks, @KajdeMunter!

Also the k6 Dockerfile alpine version was bumped to 3.10. Thanks @dmitrytokarev!

## UX

> * Better timeout messages for `setup` and `teardown` timeouts including a hint on how to fix it. (#1173)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Better timeout messages for `setup` and `teardown` timeouts, including hints on how to fix them. (#1173)
```

> * When a folder is passed with `open()`, the resulting error message will now include the path to the specified folder. (#1238)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When a folder is passed to `open()`, the resulting error message will now include the path to the specified folder. (#1238)
```

> * K6 Version will now include the git commit it was build from (in most cases ...). (#1235)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `k6 version` output will now include more information - the git commit it was build from (in most cases), as well as the used Go version and architecture. (#1235)
```

* HTTP: Correctly capture TCP reset by peer and broken pipe errors and give them the appropriate `error_code` metric tag values. (#1164)
* Config: Don't interpret non-`K6_` prefixed environment variables as k6 configuration, most notably `DURATION` and `ITERATIONS`. (#1215)
* JS/html: `Selection.map` was not wrapping the nodes it was outputting, which lead to wrongly using the internal `Goquery.Selection` instead of k6's `Selection`. Thanks to @MMartyn for reporting this! (#1198)
* HTTP: When there are redirects, k6 will now correctly set the cookie for the current URL, instead of for the one the current response is redirecting to. Thanks @dimatock! (#1201)
* Cloud: Add token to make calls to the cloud API idempotent. (#1208)
* Cloud: Improve aggregation of HTTP metrics for requests to different URLs, but with the same explicitly set `name` tag. (#1220)
* Cloud: Fix a bug where you weren't able to run a script, outputting to cloud, if it was using the shortcut urls for github/cdnjs. (#1237)

## Internals

* CI: Stop using external service for testing websockets (#1138) and remove the last use of the external `httpbin.org`. (#1213)

> * CI: Move to go 1.13 and back and to 1.13 again after a bug was fixed in the stdlib. (#1145, #1157, #1177)

Reviewer: hmm I think we should mention that k6 v0.26.0 itself was built with Go 1.13

Reviewer: the CI changes are important, but it's more important what we build the actual release with... also, we should probably increment this version: https://github.com/loadimpact/k6/blob/c5f6881d37c44b90b999ac2db4081d5614ab7aaa/README.md#L102

* CI: Fix a test on MacOS. (#1142)
* CI: Fixing flaky tests. (#1149, #1223)
* Drop an external dependency for getting user's `configdir`. (#1162)
* Use bitmask for checking whether system tags are enabled, adding some small speedup where this is required. (#1148)
* Update `envconfig` as it was very old and the newer versions had fixes and features we want. (#1214)
* Metrics: Emit iterations as part of `netext.NetTrail`, instead of as a standalone one. Also cutting down on amount of bytes we sent to the cloud output. (#1203)

## Breaking changes

> * Not really a breaking change, but `k6 convert` is getting deprecated in favor of the newer [har-to-k6](https://github.com/loadimpact/har-to-k6) external converter. As such, no new enchantment or bug fixes are expected for the internal converter, and it will probably be completely removed in a few versions. (#1228)

Reviewer 2: > no new enchantment

Enchantment? Meaning feature?

Author: enhancement :man_facepalming: too much mtg ;)

k6 v0.26.0 is here! :tada:

This release contains mostly bug fixes, though it also has several new features and enhancements! They include a new JS compatibility mode option, exporting the end-of-test summary to a JSON report file, speedups to the InfluxDB and JSON outputs, a brand new CSV output, multiple layered HTTP response body decompression, being able to use `console` in the init context, a new optional column in the summary, and Docker improvements!

Thanks to  @Sirozha1337, @openmohan, @MMartyn, @KajdeMunter, @dmitrytokarev and @dimatock for contributing to this release!

## New features and enhancements!

### A new JavaScript compatibility mode option (#1206)

> This adds a way to disable the automatic script transformation by [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) (v6.4.2) and [core-js (v2)](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js) polyfills bundled in k6. With the new `base` compatibility mode, k6 will instead rely only on the [goja](https://github.com/dop251/goja/) runtime and what is built into k6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This adds a way to disable the automatic script transformation the by [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) (v6.4.2) and [core-js (v2)](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js) polyfills, bundled in k6. With the new `base` compatibility mode, k6 will instead rely only on the [goja](https://github.com/dop251/goja/) runtime and what is built into k6.
```
the `the` needs to be there, since the whole sentence is `transformation by <whatever>, bundled in k6`

This can be configured through the new `--compatibility-mode` CLI flag and the `K6_COMPATIBILITY_MODE` environment variable. The possible values currently are:

- `extended`: this is the default and current compatibility mode, which uses Babel and core.js to achieve ES6+ compatibility.
- `base`: an optional mode that disables loading of Babel and core.js, running scripts with only goja's native ES5.1+ compatibility. If the test scripts don't require ES6 compatibility (e.g. they were previously transformed by Babel), this option can be used to reduce RAM usage during test runs.

More info what this means can be found in the [documentation](https://docs.k6.io/docs/javascript-compatibility-mode).

> Our benchmarks show considerable drop in memory usage - around 80% for simple scripts, and around 50% in the case of 2MB script with a lot of static data in it. The CPU usage is mostly unchanged, except that k6 initializes a test run a lot faster. All of those benefits will be most noticeable if k6 is used with big number of VUs (1k+). More performance comparison can be found in #1167.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our benchmarks show a considerable drop in memory usage - around 80% for simple scripts, and around 50% in the case of 2MB script with a lot of static data in it. The CPU usage is mostly unchanged, except that k6 initializes test runs a lot faster. All of those benefits will be most noticeable if k6 is used with big number of VUs (1k+). More performance comparisons can be found in #1167.
```

### JSON export of the end-of-test summary report (#1168)

> This returns (from the very early days of k6) the ability to output the data from the end of test summary in a machine readable JSON file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
machine readable
```
Maybe `machine-readable` to align with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine-readable_data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This returns (from the very early days of k6) the ability to output the data from the end of test summary in a machine-readable JSON file.
```

> This report can be enabled by the `--summary-export <file_path>` CLI flag. The resulting JSON file will include data for all test metrics, checks and thresholds.

Reviewer 3: Should we mention the environment variable `K6_SUMMARY_EXPORT`, too?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This report can be enabled by the `--summary-export <file_path>` CLI flag or the `K6_SUMMARY_EXPORT` environment variable. The resulting JSON file will include data for all test metrics, checks and thresholds.
```

Two new options were added:
- `K6_INFLUXDB_PUSH_INTERVAL` - configures at what interval the collected data is queued to be sent to InfluxDB. By default this is "1s".
- `K6_INFLUXDB_CONCURRENT_WRITES` - configures the number of concurrent write calls to InfluxDB. If this limit is reached the next writes will be queued and made when a slot is freed. By default this is 10.

### `console` is now available in the init context (#982):

This wasn't supported for the longest time, which made debugging things outside of VU code much harder, but now it's here! :tada:

In order to get this feature shipped in a timely manner, it currently has a known bug. The output of `console` calls in the init context will always be written to the `stderr`, even if the `--console-output` option is specified. This bug is tracked in https://github.com/loadimpact/k6/issues/1131

> ### HTTP: request body decompression with multiple layered algorithms (#1125)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### HTTP response body decompression with multiple layered algorithms (#1125)
```

k6 v0.26.0 is here! :tada:

This release contains mostly bug fixes, though it also has several new features and enhancements! They include a new JS compatibility mode option, exporting the end-of-test summary to a JSON report file, speedups to the InfluxDB and JSON outputs, a brand new CSV output, multiple layered HTTP response body decompression, being able to use `console` in the init context, a new optional column in the summary, and Docker improvements!

Thanks to  @Sirozha1337, @openmohan, @MMartyn, @KajdeMunter, @dmitrytokarev and @dimatock for contributing to this release!

## New features and enhancements!

### A new JavaScript compatibility mode option (#1206)

> This adds a way to disable the automatic script transformation the by [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) (v6.4.2) and [core-js (v2)](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js) polyfills, bundled in k6. With the new `base` compatibility mode, k6 will instead rely only on the [goja](https://github.com/dop251/goja/) runtime and what is built into k6.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This adds a way to disable the automatic script transformation by [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) (v6.4.2) and loading of [core-js (v2)](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js) polyfills, bundled in k6. With the new `base` compatibility mode, k6 will instead rely only on the [goja](https://github.com/dop251/goja/) runtime and what is built into k6.
```

```
metric_name,timestamp,metric_value,check,error,error_code,group,method,name,proto,status,subproto,tls_version,url,extra_tags
http_reqs,1573131887,1.000000,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
http_req_duration,1573131887,116.774321,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
http_req_blocked,1573131887,148.691247,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
http_req_connecting,1573131887,112.593448,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
```

All thanks to @Sirozha1337!

### JSON output optimizations (#1114)

The JSON output no longer blocks the goroutine sending samples to the file, but instead (like all other outputs) buffers the samples and writes them at regular intervals (100ms and is currently not configurable). It also uses a slightly faster way of encoding the data, which should decrease the memory usage by a small amount.

Another improvement is the ability to compress the generated JSON file by simply adding `.gz` to the end of the file name. Compressed files are typically 30x smaller.

### InfluxDB output improvements (#1113)

> The InfluxDB output has been updated to use less memory and try to send smaller and consistent chunks of data to InfluxDB, in order to not drop packages and be more efficient. This is primarily done by sending data in parallel, as this seems to be better from a performance perspective, and more importantly, queuing data in separate packets, so that we don't send the data for a big time period all at once. Also, the used library was updated, which also decreased the memory usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The InfluxDB output has been updated to use less memory and try to send smaller and consistent chunks of data to InfluxDB, in order to not drop packets and be more efficient. This is primarily done by sending data in parallel, as this seems to be better from a performance perspective, and more importantly, queuing data in separate packets, so that we don't send the data for a big time period all at once. Also, the used library was updated, which also decreased the memory usage.
```

k6 v0.26.0 is here! :tada:

> This release contains mostly bug fixes, though it also has a few new features, enhancements. This include speedups to influxdb and json output, a brand new csv output, multiple layered response body decompression, being able to use `console` in the initcontext, new optional column in the summary and docker improvements.

Reviewer 2: Nit: also consider using proper case: InfluxDB, JSON, CSV, HTTP, etc.

```
metric_name,timestamp,metric_value,check,error,error_code,group,method,name,proto,status,subproto,tls_version,url,extra_tags
http_reqs,1573131887,1.000000,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
http_req_duration,1573131887,116.774321,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
http_req_blocked,1573131887,148.691247,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
http_req_connecting,1573131887,112.593448,,,,,GET,http://httpbin.org/,HTTP/1.1,200,,,http://httpbin.org/,
```

All thanks to @Sirozha1337!

### JSON output optimizations (#1114)

The json output no longer blocks the goroutine sending samples to all outputs but instead (like all other outputs) buffers the samples and writes them on regular intervals (100ms and is currently not configurable). It also uses slightly faster way of doing it that would decrease the memory usage by a small amount. 

Another, bigger, improvement is that if now the output file ends in `.gz` the output will be gzipped which decreased the size of the output file by up to 30x when tested.

### Influxdb refactoring (#1113)

> the InfluxDB output has been updated to use less memory and try to send smaller and consistent chunks of data to InfluxDB in order to not drop packages and use less memory. This is primarily done by sending data in parallel as this seems to be better from performance perspective and more importantly queuing data in separate packages so we don't send the data for a very long period all at once. Also the library used was updated which also decreased the memory usage.

Reviewer 4: better from **a** performance.

Also the library (add a comma after Also,)

Two new options were added:

> K6_INFLUXDB_PUSH_INTERVAL - configures at what interval the collected data is queued to be send to InfluxDB. By default this is "1s".

Reviewer 4: send => sent

> K6_INFLUXDB_CONCURRENT_WRITES - configures the amount of concurrent write calls to InfluxDB. If this limit is reached the next writes will be queued and made when a slot is freed. By default this is 10.

Reviewer 4: amount -> number

### `console` is now available in the init context (#982):

> For a long time this wasn't supported which made debugging things outside of VU code much harder, but now it's here. 

Reviewer 4: add a comma after "time"

> There is currently known bug is that calls to console in the init context will always write to the stout regardless of using `--console-output`.

Reviewer 2: Typo: "stout"

### HTTP: request body decompression with multiple layered algorithms (#1125)

In v0.25.0 compressing bodies was added and it had support for multiple layered algorithms. Now this is also true for decompressing bodies when k6 gets them as responses.

### Summary: add an optional count column (#1143)

> The `--summary-trend-stats` now also recognises `count` as a valid column and will output the count of samples in all Trend metrics. 

Reviewer 4: I think we should use the US spelling `recognizes`

  - calling the `error` handler on an error when closing the websocket, instead of calling with a null (#1118)
  - correctly handle server initiated close (#1186)
* JSON: Better error messages when parsing JSON fails. Now telling you at which line and row the
  error is instead of just the offset. Thanks, @openmohan (#905) 
* HTTP: Use Request's GetBody in order to be able to get the body multiple times for a single
  request as needed in 308 redirects of posts and if the server sends GOAWAY with no error (#1093)
* JS: Don't export internal go struct fields of script options (#1151)
* JS: Ignore minIterationDuration for `setup` and `teardown` (#1175)
* UX: Better timeout messages for setup and teardown timeouts including a hint on how to fix it (#1173)
* HTTP: Return error on any request that returns 101 status code as k6 currently doesn't support any protocol upgrade behaviour (#1172)
* HTTP: Correctly capture tcp reset by peer and broken pipe errors and give them the appropriate error_code (#1164)
* UX: Don't interpret not `K6_` prefixed env variables as k6 configuration, most notable `DURATION` and `ITERATIONS` (#1215)

> * JS/html: When using `Selection.map` was not wrapping the nodes it was outputing which lead to wrongly using the internal `Goquery.Selection` instead of k6's `Selection`. Thanks to @MMartyn for reporting this! (#1198)

Reviewer 4: `outputting` (double t)
